C# 7.x: Adding rules for improved overload candidates (#263)
dotnet/csharpstandard: standard/expressions.md

  - for a fixed value parameter or a value parameter created by the expansion, an implicit conversion ([§10.2](conversions.md#102-implicit-conversions)) exists from the argument expression to the type of the corresponding parameter, or
  - for a `ref` or `out` parameter, the type of the argument expression is identical to the type of the corresponding parameter.

Additional rules determine whether a method is applicable or not based on the context of the expression:

> - An instance method is not applicable when the invocation has no instance receiver and `this` cannot be used explicitly (such as in static methods, field initializers and constructor initializers).

Reviewer: I don't know "instance receiver" is used elsewhere. I think what you're looking for is "when the receiver is not a variable or value", and on the next line "when the receiver is not a type" – this phraseology comes from §11.6.5.

Reviewer 2: I'll go with that, but it needs to also take into account the possibility of there not being a receiver.

Reviewer 2: Not sure on this, actually - no explicit receiver? I have yet to find a good canonical definition of "receiver".

  - for a fixed value parameter or a value parameter created by the expansion, an implicit conversion ([§10.2](conversions.md#102-implicit-conversions)) exists from the argument expression to the type of the corresponding parameter, or
  - for a `ref` or `out` parameter, the type of the argument expression is identical to the type of the corresponding parameter.

> In the case of a method group

Reviewer: We are in a subclause of overload resolution, and surely we're not doing overload resolution unless we have a method group?

Should (some of) these added bullets not be in part of the second bullet list in §11.6.4.1?

> - If the group contains both instance and static members, instance members invoked without an instance receiver or context are not applicable.

Reviewer: Should this be about the group containing both *applicable* instance and static members? (I'm wondering whether this algorithm is order-independent and so raising the question)

> - If the group contains both instance and static members, static members invoked with an instance receiver are not applicable.

Reviewer 2: Do these lines mean that if there are *only* instance members or *only* static members, the members that will fail later are still applicable? What's the reasoning behind taking that approach rather than saying they're not applicable anyway?

Reviewer 2: The reasoning is: this way we get a better error message. (This is how the compiler works.) We could potentially simplify this. There might be complexities around extension methods, and we're all somewhat confused.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: keep it like this for now, but raise an issue to see whether we can convince ourselves that the result is the same (in terms of validity etc) - the compiler can still choose to give a better error message.

Reviewer 2: We now think that it could simplify things a lot if we could:

- Refer to methods rather than members, so that we don't need to say "In the case of a method group"
- Remove references to "If the group contains both instance and static members" so that we can just have the context of "the expression we're considering (e.g. whether it has an instance receiver), the method we're considering, and the argument list" - not the rest of the method group.

Reviewer 2: (But we're not sure if this changes extension method invocation. Neal is checking.)

Reviewer 2: We *should* remove the condition here. Demo code from Neal:

```csharp
using System;

static class Extensions {
    public static void M(this A a) {
        Console.WriteLine("extension A::M");
    }
}

class A {

    static void M() {
        Console.WriteLine("A::M");
    }
    static void Main() {
        A a = new A();
        a.M();
    }
}
```

This picks the extension method, *so must have determined that the static method is not applicable*.

Reviewer 2: We should also remove the final validation bullet from 11.7.8.2.

> - When there is no receiver, static members in a static context are applicable; otherwise, both static and instance members are applicable.

Reviewer 2: I believe we can remove this entirely, as it's covered by the conditions above.

> - When the receiver is ambiguously an instance or type due to a color-color situation, both are applicable.

Reviewer 2: "due to a color-color situation" doesn't sound like something that should be in the normative text. (Perhaps in an example, or refer to an existing example?)

Reviewer: Came to to make a similar comment and found Jon had beaten me to it. A Google of the phrase only seems to turn up references to the use here...

Reviewer 3: Change "due to a color-color situation" to a reference to https://github.com/dotnet/csharpstandard/blob/draft-v7/standard/expressions.md#11762-identical-simple-names-and-type-names .  Ambiguous is perhaps not the correct word to describe this situation.

Reviewer 2: Yup, there's still work to do on this bit :)

Reviewer: Go with suitable wording around @gafter's reference to §11.7.6.2. Not sure I agree that _ambiguous_ is perhaps not the correct word, but if it is changed here it also needs to be changed in §11.7.6.2

Reviewer 3: 11.7.6.2 specifically says that it is *not* ambiguous.

Maybe something like

> When the receiver could be either an instance or a type as described in §11.7.6.2, both instance and static methods are applicable.

Reviewer 2: Done.

> - A static context, where an implicit `this` instance receiver cannot be used, includes the body of members where no `this` is defined, such as static members, as well as places where this cannot be used, such as field initializers and constructor initializers.

Reviewer 4: I think you meant to code-fence the last "this" in this paragraph:

```suggestion
- A static context, where an implicit `this` instance receiver cannot be used, includes the body of members where no `this` is defined, such as static members, as well as places where `this` cannot be used, such as field initializers and constructor initializers.
```

Reviewer 2: Done (locally).

> - A static context, where an implicit `this` instance receiver cannot be used, includes the body of members where no `this` is defined, such as static members, as well as places where this cannot be used, such as field initializers and constructor initializers.

Reviewer 2: With the above bullet removed, we don't need to define static context here - although we probably *do* need to define instance context. The term "static context" is only used elsewhere in the definition of the `nameof` operator. It probably makes sense to define "instance context" and "static context" somewhere, but it's not clear to me where that should be.

Reviewer 2: Hmm... I've tried something else in the end, i.e. clarifying where an instance method with no receiver is valid.

> - If the group contains generic methods whose type arguments do not satisfy their constraints, these members are not applicable.

Reviewer 2: Is this about explicit type arguments, or does it include inferred ones? (I can't remember the ordering as to whether this happens before type inference or not...)

Reviewer 2: Neal believes this includes inferred ones.

Reviewer 2: (And constraints don't prevent inference - so it could be invalid ones at this stage.)

Reviewer 2: And let's make this (and the one below) refer to a single method.

> - For a method group conversion, candidate methods whose return type doesn't match up with the delegate's return type are not applicable.

Reviewer 3: I think "match up with" needs to be tightened up to use spec terminology.

Reviewer 4: How about this wording:

```suggestion
- For a method group conversion, there must exist an identity conversion (§10.2.2) between the candidate method return type and the delegate's return. Otherwise, the candidate method is not applicable.
```

This wording does mean that the candidate method could return `dynamic` and the delegate type could be `Func<object>`. I tested, and that is the current behavior.

Reviewer 2: That works for me.

Reviewer: "candiate" in last line...

Reviewer 4: Thanks. Updated the suggestion.

  - for a fixed value parameter or a value parameter created by the expansion, an implicit conversion ([§10.2](conversions.md#102-implicit-conversions)) exists from the argument expression to the type of the corresponding parameter, or
  - for a `ref` or `out` parameter, the type of the argument expression is identical to the type of the corresponding parameter.

Additional rules determine whether a method is applicable or not based on the context of the expression:

- An instance method is not applicable when the invocation has no explicit receiver and `this` cannot be used explicitly (such as in static methods, field initializers and constructor initializers).
- A static method is not applicable when the invocation has an explicit receiver which is not a type.

> - When the receiver could be either an instance or a type as described in [§11.7.6.2](expressions.md#11762-identical-simple-names-and-type-names), both instance and static methods are applicable.

Reviewer 2: Let's try to go back to the style of text we deleted - but the "this" aspect was a problem. (We could come up with an example of static+instance overloads; the instance one should be removed earlier.)

Reviewer 2: Can refer to "where a this_access is permitted" and refer to https://github.com/dotnet/csharpstandard/blob/draft-v7/standard/expressions.md#11712-this-access

- A generic method whose type arguments (explicitly specified or inferred) do not all satisfy their constraints is not applicable.

> - In the context of a method group conversion, there must exist an identity conversion (§10.2.2) between the method return type and the delegate's return type. Otherwise, the candidate method is not applicable.

Reviewer 4: This is the change that (I believe) fixes #188
